The California Agriculture Industry is one of the state's largest revenue sources. In two decades, the country has experienced a cumulative inflation of 50.30% [1], yet the value of California’s agriculture has experienced a growth of 112.9%. Through this analysis, I provide insight into the California Agriculture Industry by utilizing yearly USDA reports [2] that will enable farms, companies, and the government to make informed decisions. 

First, we can observe each county's agricultural performance within the state by observing their agricultural value. This visualization allows us to observe the top-performing counties (such as Fresno, Tulare, and Kern) and compare their performance in the two most recent decades for example. This information is vital for entities seeking to tap into agriculture within a stable county, identifying potential untapped markets in low-value counties, and allocating resources. This information can be of great use for corporations seeking to expand operations, to conduct agricultural targeted marketing, and it assists in supply chain efforts. Information like this can be a great asset for bureaucracy for the expansion of state-sponsored infrastructure, resource allocation, land use policies and incentives, and for the assistance of vulnerable counties for the creation of programs that may address challenges.

Next, looking at the yearly top three performers allows us to respond to historical product demands. This stacked bar chart enables us to note the revenue provided by the top three agricultural products for each year, also separating the total revenue into the proportional revenue of each of the top three products. This format allows us to note trends, such as the presence of grapes as a top-three product since 2000, the shift from nursery products to almond products at the turn of the decade, and the latest shift from grape-related products to berry-related products within the top three as of 2020. This stacked bar chart will inform farmers and companies about stable crops to select and diversify with when allocating more resources. It also allows private entities to prepare for a higher demand for these products, allowing the industry to shift resources for marketing and distributing in accordance with these trends. Identification of these crops is also vital for governmental support that can drive economic support and food security. Due to the higher resource expenditures in these areas, policy-making can also be specifically tailored for these products to ensure farming practices that will avoid detrimental environmental effects.

In a similar vein, a colored table with products dominating the yearly “top ten” category allows private and public entities to become aware of the most consistent, and top-performing agricultural products. As mentioned before, this information allows organizations to become aware of the most stable products and make decisions regarding resource allocation, diversification, and policy-making in support of practices for such products.

Finally, a pie chart that allows for interactive timeframe filtering is essential to analyze finer changes within the California agricultural product market. While the rest of the visualizations display big-picture trends and market shifts, an interactive pie chart allows the viewer to keep track of changes for specific products of interest or to evaluate specific revenue categories.

Ultimately, these visualizations and insights provide a clear portrayal of the changes in the California agricultural market. Grouping the data into one interactive and central destination allows everyone to easily access public data that would otherwise require data cleaning, formatting, and interpreting. 


[1] https://tools.carboncollective.co/inflation/us/2000/65151/2020/#:~:text=The%20average%20inflation%20rate%20of,over%20this%20time%20was%2050.30%25.

[2] https://www.nass.usda.gov/Statistics_by_State/California/Publications/AgComm/index.php
